# A Study on Staying Home

Within this article, linked [here](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/74-of-software-engineers-abroad-are-not-interested-in-moving-to-the-us-for-work/), an interesting study about remote/in-person work options was being conducted. In this article, statistics show that 83% of people have a preference for remote/hybrid work. The benefits of doing so are expected – flexibility, work-life balance, and increased autonomy. Personally, I agree with this sentiment as at times, the logistics of working in an office (transportation, rigidity of hours) takes away from the actual experience of working. If the acts of getting to work is an hour, then that's 10 hours of week that is spent in limbo where neither work nor personal errands can happen. By allowing for remote work, people get greater control over their own time while still managing to theoretically achieve the same quality and level of work.

This article is relevant to software engineering because it can be representative of a further abstraction of the Agile Manifesto. The manifesto pushes forwards ideals that value flexibility over rigidity. We can imagine the 9-5 lifestyle as a forced type of rigidity that comes from a work culture that has been engrained in human society for centuries. Instead of truly listening to what people want and changing based on life circumstances, we still stick to what is given to us. Remote/hybrid work is the parallel of Agile, showing an incorporating of opinions, collaboration, and flexibility. In the article, one of the reasons remote work was sought after was because some employees believed that the current location of their work was dangerous because of political and geographical tensions. It is unlikely for in-person work to have responded to this change and instead, those employees would have to remain with a system that wasn't best for their happiness or mental well-being. Remote work is like how, when following the Scrum framework, you change and adapt after each sprint.

## Comments (Alan Chen)

I found it interesting that the article mentions that working remotely leads to "enhanced work life balance" because almost everyone I spoke to during my internship this past summer mentioned that they lose track of time and work more (or crazy/odd) hours in the day as a result of WFH. I personally experienced this, too. In the office, I knew when it was time to stop working because my co-workers were packing up. When I was working remotely, I often lost track of time and worked late nights.

In addition, I was relieved to see that 17% of those surveyed said that they felt a loss of communication when doing WFH, because I felt that as well. I'm surprised the number wasn't higher, however. It feels like most people that I talk to agreee that communication is much more difficult when working remotely.
